https://www.udemy.com/course/draft/393306/learn/lecture/18227214#notes

were gonna to discuss lifecycle event hooks

as u know lifecycle event hooks defines scripts that u wantto run 
and the order we wanna run comein during the deployment
and for the examp they really focus on understanding 
lifecycle event hooks for in-place deployment.


so here our example again. 
and in the hooks section of the file
we've got a few diff scripts running as diff stages during the deployment
and of course the lifecycle event hooks run in specific order.
and thats known as the RUN ORDER. 

so if u see anything in these example referencing to lifecycle event hooks
* thiss werteringaking about. 
and we oly haveinstances load-balancer
 i* we then have pharse 2 which is not pharse nuts and bowl of 
 all instances and ncluded here in thiss example
but there r actually have lots of lifecycle event hooks that u can include
and u just include the one if u need for ur own specific deployment
so waht ever make sense for ur own application. 

so these just few example
but im gonna show u an exhaustive list of all lifecycle event hooks 
whcih apply to an in-place deployment
and thats actually quite alot take in and remenber

when im think about lifecyle event 
i try and  think them as 3 diff pharses and its just the way i try to 
remember all
So hopefully it makes sense to u as well. 

* and first of all in my pharse 1. this is all to do  with de-registering
all instances load-balancer
* we then have pharse 2 which is real nuts and bolts  
of the application deployment. All these activites need to happened 
of the application deployment itself. 
 * and then my thirth pharse is re-registering instances of LB. 
 so thats everything have been installed and all up running again 
 and we re-registering instances of LB.

 So let's go un... .. alittle bit for more details
 so the first lifecycle event hooks is called before lock traffic
 and this cover all the tasks that u want to run  
 on instances before theyre de-registerd from a  LB.

 So u have any scripts u want to run before theyre de-registerd from a LB 
 then this's lifecycle event hooks you are going to use 
 
 * the next one its called Block traffic, and thiss where we actually de-register the 
  instances from a LB. So any scripts relating to that include in Block traffic
 * After Block traffic is any tasks that u wanto run on instances ... after they've been 
  de-registerd from a LB. 
 And remember its all quite flexible and u just use lificycle event hooks that makes sense
 your own application. 

 So now, the next stage, and all about nuts and bolts of actually point application..
 of ur instances. 
 So the next lifecycle event hooks, were gonna lookat is APPLICATIONSTOP
 So thiss all about gracefully stop the application  
 So what scripts would u need to run in the order to make sure 
 ur application shuts down gracefully
 and of course with an in-place deployment u may well be deploying a new version
 of an application whcihc is already installed in production  
 So that makes sense that u going to shutdown the application  before 
 we do anything else. 

 So the next step is Downloadbunddle, and thiss where is codedeploy agents
 copies the application revision files or the new version of ur application
 so it copies all of ur files to temporary location 

the next event is BEFOREINSTALL, so thats pre installation scripts that u want to run
for ex that u want to backup recover version of ur application
u might wantto backup some configuration files ..etc
u might wantto de-crypt file from DOWNLOADBUNDLE that need de-crypting
the nextstep is actually install the application itself

and this often involves coping the application files to their final location

the next step is AFTERINSTALL and this is post-installation scipts that u might wantto run
so for ex u wanto update configuration file or u might wanto change the file permission as well
so any scripts that u might wantto run after installation has been done, we then have
APPLICATIONSTART so this point we then start up any services which was stoped during APPLICATIONSTOP
that u might have script or set of common that u might want to run for APPLICATIONSTART
and we then have VALIDATESERVICE 
and thats covers of any test that u might wanto run to validate that the applition 
is working as expected with a LB
So we have BEFOREALLOWTRAFFIC which is any tasks u wanto run into instances 
before they get re-register with the LB.

ALLOWTRAFFIC so thiss when we go ahead and re-registerd with a LB 
and then after ALLOWTRAFFIC whichs any tasks that u wanto run on instances
after they've been re-registered with a LB 

So thats all of the lifecycle event hooks for an in-plcae deployment
now in-terms of our exam tip

RUN-ORDER
for the exam u need to understand logical flow at a high level 
just remember if u see run order in relation of lifecycle event hooks
then thiss what theyre talking about, theyre talking about the specific running order
that everything runs in

IN-PLACE
and an in-place deployment, in my mind broadly 3 pharses.
so u've got DE-REGISTER pharse .. de-gistering with the LB
then the installation itself and everything involved in that
and then we-ve got the re-registering with a LB
and then finally for the exam, i say the most important things
try and get straightin ur mind
the order of all of these things happen  
and if u thinkabout it, its pretty locaigcal and 
its only the same steps that u would do 
if u installing new version of an application manually
so if u do see a question of an exam or not sure about how to awnser it 
just have a think about the steps u might take
if u were performing a manually application update 

what would u do, 
and what would the sequence of  steps look like 