https://www.udemy.com/course/draft/393306/learn/lecture/6502072#notes
2 types: in-place and blue-green.


appSpec.yml file 
with code deploy for EC2 and on-premises only allow yml file

File structure: 
    version
    os: operation system version
    files: the location of any application files that need to be copied
    hooks:lifecycle event hooks

Script: might be used during ec2 deployment

So youre going to want to run them at specific points in your 
deployment lifecycle.

we've got:  version: 
    os: 
    files: which specific any files and location  u want to copy and during the deployment
     so you wanto copy source and destination
    
    hooks section: this is lifecycle hooks, and thisis where specific files
        scripts u wanto run them during the deployment. 

    hooks run in a very specific order.
    this is defined these parameter here. 
    and this is 

    root of folder is appspec.yml.
    and evething else is organizeed into its own folder
    so we can have scripts folder 

    Scripts folder containes thats scripts you wantto run.
    the config folder which has any configuration files
    and the source folder contains any application source code

    4:11  

    remember configuration file ... and we used to define 
    parameter whcih we going to use by codedeploy during the deployment
    so ex: operation system version. 
        any files will be going to copy during the deployment. 
        and the lifice hooks which defines the scripts
        that you wantto run during the deployment and when to run them. 

    the appspec.yml always leaves in root of your revision directory.
    and then eveething else organized into folders 
    usually a folder containing scripts config files and source code.

    and then the lifecycle event hooks has very specific run order
    and they use to define certain scripts will run
    during the lifecycle of your deployment.
    
    and were going take a look of lifecycle event hooks in next lecture 
    So thats end of this lecture. if u have any questions pls let me know
    if not feel free to move on next lecture. 
    

