
https://www.udemy.com/course/draft/393306/learn/lecture/4989304#announcements
So, whats KMS?
well, its standard key management service. 
and its a management service that make its really easy
for use to create and control the encrytion keys used to encrypt 
your data in AWS. 
and whats great things about KMS thats completely intergrated with 
a lots of diff aws services and that mean ... encryting data 
in those services. its easy to checking a box in the console
so the services like S3, RDS , elacstic blockstorage 
elacstic file system will all allow u to easily encrypt any data that u store 
in these services jsut by checking a box in the console
So by intergrating KMS with lots of diff aws services, 
they've made thats really easily for u to encrypt your data.
So with KMS its really simple to encrypt your data using encryption keys 
that u manage.

so when should we use KMS? 
So basiclly we should using it when we r dealing with sensitive information. 
SO whenever u r storing sensitive data within AWS. u should think about enckrypting it
using KMS. So think anydata that u wantto keep secret for ex: 
if ur storing customer data,  finalcial data, password so anything like 
database passwords, any secrets of ur application, any credentials as well
so that if u r storing anydata of that kind of data  in AWS u wantto thinkabout encrypting 
that data.

Now as i said earlier, KMS intergrate with most other AWS services
and the one that'll be familar with or think like S3 RDS, dynamody, lmadda
and the way that lambda can intergare with KMS and...it can go in
encrypt and decrypt data provided u can get accessKMS service and 
KMS encryption keys. its also intergrate with EBS, 
EFS, alsoe cloud trail and its intersting thing about cloud trail
it that u'll get order trail or all of the api calls in the KMS
so u know ecxatly who have been using ur keys to encrypt or decrypt
or who has been attempting to access to ur encrypted data
It also intergrates really well oneelse with the Developer tools
and this is just some services that i jsut wanted to highlight,  the one
that u mightbe aware of or we gonna be learning about in this course

* main features
now, main one of the main features of KMS that u going to need
to be aware of is this idea of the CMK.
so whatis CMK?
whatis stands for customer master key  
and the customer master key is capable of encryting and decrypting data
up to 4kbs. So u might be thinking that doesn't sound like 
very much data, so whats that actually used for?
well, the customer master key is used to genarate, encrypt and decrypt
the data key. 
and this is datakey whichis then used in turn to encrypt and decrypt data 
and this idea of using customer master key to encrypt data key and then using that
data key to encrypt your data. its known as "envelope encryption".
and dont worry we gonna look at this in a little bit more detail 
later on in this section of course. but jus tbe aware 
that the customer master lkey can only encrypt and decrypt 
upto 4 kbs of data. And then anything over and above that ... 
u going to need to generate the data key.. and use that for 
encrypt or decrypt your data.

Now thats alwasy to best way to learn about aws services is get your hands dirty.
..
