https://www.udemy.com/course/draft/393306/learn/lecture/25334692#announcements

...
now there r 2 different types of SQS queue avaiable, and we gonna go through
both of these. And the main different between of 2 is 
"how they handle the ordering of messages". 
So we've got standard queue whhich r default and 
the standard queue provides best effort the ordering and 
we've also got FIFO queue whcih stands for first in- first out. 
and with the FIFO queue , 
the ordering of messages is strictly preserved. 
So lets take a look each of these in more detail. 
beginning with standard queue. 
So with standard queue, 
.u gets nearly unlimited number of transactions per second. 
.they guarantee of a message will bee deliveried at least once. 
. and u gets Best effort ordering, so the standard queue provides
    best effort ordering, which ensures the messages r generally 
    delivered in the same order that they were sent.
but occasionally because of the highly distributed artritechture 
which allows such high through put more than one copy of a message
maybe deliveried and messages might be delivered out of order as well. 
So here is a  high level view of standard queue.. 
we got 6 messages in a queue, and they r almost in the right order
but they r couple of messages here that r not in the order and we've got 
a duplicate as well. So how did they compare with the FIFO queue. 
 - So FiFo is standard for first in first out delivery and the order which messages 
are sent is strictly preserved. 
 - So u get exactly once processing. So the messages r delivered once and remains
 available until the comsumer processed and deletes it of a processing. 
 and Duplicates r not introduced. 
 - Now they r a limit of 300 transactions per second with FIFO queue. 
    But apart from that FIFO queue has all the same capabilities of a standard queue. 
 So here is a high level example. we'e got 5 messages in a FIFO queue, and they r 
 all ordered perfectly with no duplicates introduced. 
 And this is great for banking application for example where the order 
 that a transaction happens. 
 its very important and u cant afford to have transations duplicated
 or processed in wrong order.. 
 So its really good for financial applications or financial transactions. 
 anything where u need the jobs to processed in a specific order. 
 [So on the my exam tips]: 
    [standard queue]: u get best effort ordering. 
                    - a message will be delivered at least once. 
                    - however, u my experience with occasionally duplicates.
                    - and the standard queue is the default queue type. 
    [FIFO queue]: and with FiFo queue, just remember that standards for first in    
                        - first out and the messages order r strictly preserved.
                        - messages r delivered once only. 
                        - No duplicates r introduced. 
                        - and its great option for banking transaction which need 
                        to happen in a strict order, and u cannot afford to introduce
                        duplicate transactions. 